4. OVERALL GAME CONTEXT

Transcend is an abstract shooting game with geometric, morphing graphics.
There are three levels.  In each level, the player guides a ship-like glyph 
around a grid.  Minor anti-glyphs (enemy objects) attack the player's glyph 
by shooting at it.  When the player's glyph is hit by an enemy projecile, it 
is knocked toward the center of the grid.

Players can increase the power of their projectiles by gathering elements
from around the grid and bringing them to the center.  The elements form
a visual collage, and each element also represents a section of music.
Thus, while powering up their projectiles, players are also arranging a piece
of music that plays in the background.  Anti-glyphs also attack the player's 
collage by shooting at it, and these attacks push elements away from the 
center. 

The player's goal in each level is to destroy the major anti-glyph, a large
enemy object that circles around the outskirts of the grid.  When the player
approaches the major anti-glyph, the anti-glyph attacks the player's glyph
with powerful projectiles.  The player must shoot the major anti-glyph many
times in succession to destroy it.  After the major anti-glyph has been
destroyed, a portal opens that allows the player to move on to the next level.


5. VIOLENCE 
--Violence Depicted:
--Includes depictions involving injury, damage, death, or destruction of the 
  following:

Humans:            Never
Animals:           Never
Creatures/Robots:  Frequently
Vehicles:          Never
Objects:           Never


--Describe specific instances of the above forms of violence, and the context 
  in which they occur:

The player shoots projectiles at abstract enemy entities.  These entities are
controled by the computer and behave autonomously, so they are best described 
as "robots" and not as "objects."  However, they do not represent robots 
specifically, but instead represent an abstract enemy force.  When enemy 
entities are destroyed, they morph into geometrical explosion displays and 
then fade away.
	
	
--To what extent can the player control the depictions of violence?

The player hits the SPACE bar to fire each projectile and aims projectiles
using the ARROW keys.  Thus, the player completely controls each act of 
violence.  However, the depection of the destruction (in other words, the
explosion graphics that are displayed in each case) are controled by the
computer.


--Describe how violent acts are rewarded in the game, i.e., is the player 
  rewarded for successfully completing, avoiding, or preventing acts of 
  violence, aggression, injury, or death?  Include specific instances of such 
  rewards, and the context in which they occur:

The player is rewarded indirectly for destroying minor anti-glyphs because the
player gets a break from enemy attacks until the next wave of anti-glyphs 
appears.  In other words, it is difficult to build an element collage while
anti-glyphs are attacking, so the player will benefit from destroying them.

The player is rewarded directly for destroying the major anti-glyph by gaining
access to the next level.


--Violent Sound Effects:
--Includes all sounds associated with violence, injury, pain, or death.

Violent sound effects heard or depicted:  Frequently


--Describe specific instances of these sound effects, and the context in which
  they occur:

Each projectile fired is accompanied by a musical note.
Each enemy explosion is also accompanied by a musical sound.
These sound effects are abstract and do not directly represent a violent act.


--Non-adversaries:
--Includes characters who are non-threatening or non-aggressive to the player,
  such as bystanders, pedestrians, and teammates.

Player can injure, damage, kill, or destroy non-adversaries:  Never


--Blood Effects:
--Includes all blood-like fluids, regardless of color or how they are depicted,
  such as puffs, splatters, pooling, or bloodstains.

Blood effects depicted:  Never


--Gore:
--Includes the mutilation of any organism (e.g., humans, animals, aliens, or 
  other creatures) by dismemberment, decapitation, burning, or other means, 
  and the depiction of burnt body parts, non-identifiable body parts or "gibs",
  guts, or severed limbs.

Gore depicted:  Never


--Post-Mortem Damage:
--Includes any damage that can affect the body of a dead organism (including 
  humans, animals, aliens, or other creatures) by shooting, burning, or other 
  means, utilizing blood effects, gore effects, rag doll physics, etc.

Post-mortem damage depicted:  Never


--Other:
--Please indicate whether the following themes, information, or actions are 
  present.

Crude or vulgar acts:                      Never
Acts of discrimination or racism:          Never
Sexual violence, rape, or attempted rape:  Never
Suicide:                                   Never
Torture:                                   Never